*grilled steak
preheat oven to 350 degrees
heat pan on stovetop
rub oil onto steak
cover steak with spices
let steak pan sear for 30 seconds on each side
put pan with steak into oven
let roast for 2 min on each side
*Avocado Toast
Toast 2 slices of whole grain in a toaster until golden and crispy. 
In a small bowl combine and mash the avocado, cilantro, lime.
salt + pepper to taste. 
Spread half of the mixture on each slice of toasted bread.
*Baked Chicken Schnitzel 
Preheat oven to 425 degrees
Line a large baking sheet with aluminum foil and drizzle olive oil over foil.
Place baking sheet in preheated oven.
Flatten chicken breasts so they are all about 1/4-inch thick. 
Season chicken with salt and pepper.
Mix flour and paprika together on a large plate.
Beat eggs with salt and pepper in a shallow bowl. 
Mix bread crumbs and lemon zest together on a separate large plate.
Dredge each chicken piece in flour mixture
then dredge in egg
then bread crumbs mixture
set aside in 1 layer on a clean plate. 
Repeat with remaining chicken.
Remove baking sheet from oven and arrange chicken in 1 layer on the sheet.
Drizzle more olive oil over each piece of coated chicken.
Bake in the preheated oven for 5 to 6 minutes. 
Flip chicken and continue baking until no longer pink in the center
Also, the breading is lightly browned. 
*Fettuccine Alfredo Pasta
Bring a large pot of lightly salted water to a boil.
Add fettuccini and cook for 8 to 10 minutes or until al dente; drain.
In a large saucepan, melt butter into cream over low heat. 
Add salt, pepper and garlic salt.
Stir in cheese over medium heat until melted.
Add pasta to sauce. 
Use enough of the pasta so that all of the sauce is used
and the pasta is thoroughly coated. 
Serve immediately.
*Roasted Cauliflower
Preheat oven to 450 degrees 
Toss the cauliflower with the olive oil, garlic, and red pepper on a baking sheet
Sprinkle with the salt and thyme and toss again. 
Roast until golden and tender, about 20 minutes. Transfer to a serving bowl and serve.
*Mac and Cheese
Cook macaroni according to the package directions. 
Drain macaroni. 
In a saucepan, melt butter or margarine over medium heat. 
Stir in enough flour to make a roux. 
Add milk to roux slowly, stirring constantly. 
Stir in cheeses, and cook over low heat until cheese is melted and the sauce is a little thick. 
Put macaroni in large casserole dish, and pour sauce over macaroni.
Melt butter in a skillet over medium heat. 
Add breadcrumbs and brown. 
Spread over the macaroni and cheese to cover. 
Sprinkle with a little paprika.
Bake at 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) for 30 minutes. Serve.
*Grilled Cheese
Heat a heavy pan over medium-low heat.
Thinly spread one side of each bread slice with butter.
 Spread the other side of each slice with mayonnaise.
Place the bread, mayonnaise-side-down, in the pan.
Divide the cheese evenly on top of the buttered slices.
Use a spatula to flip one slice over on top of the other, and press lightly to melt. 
Turn sandwich until cheese is melted.
*grilled salmon
Season salmon fillets with lemon pepper, garlic powder, and salt.
In a small bowl, stir together soy sauce, brown sugar, water, 
and vegetable oil until sugar is dissolved. 
Place fish in a large resealable plastic bag with the soy sauce mixture, seal, and turn to coat. 
Refrigerate for at least 2 hours.
Preheat grill for medium heat.
Lightly oil grill grate. 
Place salmon on the preheated grill, and discard marinade. 
Cook salmon for 6 to 8 minutes per side, or until the fish flakes easily with a fork.
*cheesecake
Heat oven to 350 degrees F.
Mix graham crumbs, butter and 1/4 cup sugar; press onto bottom of 9-inch springform pan.
Beat cream cheese and remaining sugar in large bowl with mixer until blended. 
Add sour cream and vanilla; mix well. 
Add eggs, 1 at a time, beating on low speed after each addition just until blended. 
Pour over crust.
Bake 1 hour to 1 hour 10 min. or until center is almost set. 
Run knife around rim of pan to loosen cake; cool before removing rim. 
Refrigerate cheesecake 4 hours.
Top with pie filling before serving.
*turkey gravy
Melt butter in a large saucepan over medium-low heat. 
Stir in black pepper.
Slowly add flour, whisking continuously until mixture is smooth.
Slowly whisk in drippings into the pan and whisk continuously. 
Cook gravy for several minutes until it thickens up.
Serve immediately or keep warm on low heat until ready to serve.
*meatloaf
Preheat oven to 350 degrees Fahrenheit.
In a large bowl, add the beef, bread crumbs, onion, milk, 
egg, 2 tablespoons ketchup, worcestershire sauce, parsley, 
salt, garlic powder, and pepper.
Use your hands to mix these ingredients together until well combined.
Add the meat mixture to a loaf pan. Pat the meat down into an even layer.
In a small bowl, add 1/4 cup ketchup, the brown sugar, and vinegar. 
Stir to combine. Pour the sauce on top of the meatloaf and spread it into an even layer.
Bake uncovered for 55 minutes.
Let the meatloaf rest for 8-10 minutes before serving (or it may fall apart)
*Omelette
Beat three eggs lightly with a fork 
Melt the butter over medium-low heat on a skillet and keep the temperature low.
Use a spatula to gently lift the cooked eggs from the edges of the pan.
Tilt the pan to allow the uncooked eggs to flow to the edge of the pan.
Cook for a few more seconds
Fold the omelet in half.
Slide it onto a plate with the help of spatula.
*Cheese Omelette
Beat three eggs lightly with a fork 
Melt the butter over medium-low heat on a skillet and keep the temperature low.
Use a spatula to gently lift the cooked eggs from the edges of the pan.
Tilt the pan to allow the uncooked eggs to flow to the edge of the pan.
Spread cheese over the top of partially cooked eggs
Cook for a few more seconds until not runny
Fold the omelet in half.
Slide it onto a plate with the help of spatula.
*french toast
whisk together the eggs, milk, and cinnamon until well blended and 
pour into a shallow bowl, wide enough to place a slice of the bread you will be using.
Place each slice of bread into the milk egg mixture, allowing the bread to soak in some of it.
Melt butter in a skillet over medium high heat. 
Shake off the excess egg mixture from the bread,
place the bread slices onto the hot skillet.
Fry the French toast until browned on one side, then flip and brown the other side.
Serve hot with butter and maple syrup. 
*guacamole
Cut the avocados in half.
Remove seed. 
Score the inside of the avocado with a blunt knife
scoop out the flesh with a spoon and place in a bowl.
Using a fork, roughly mash the avocado. 
Sprinkle with salt and lime juice. 
Add the chopped onion, cilantro and black pepper
Place plastic wrap on the surface of the guacamole and refrigerate. 
*tuna salad
Use a can opener to cut open the cans of tuna fish
drain water from can.
Add 4 tablespoons of mayonnaise, celery, shallot, lemon juice, salt and black pepper to the tuna fish. 
Stir with a fork to combine, breaking up any large chunks of tuna fish as you go.
Refrigerate and serve. 
*Pork Chops
Salt and pepper both sides of the pork chops.
Combine the flour and some cayenne, salt and black pepper.
Dredge each side of the pork chops in the flour mixture, and then set aside on a plate.
Heat the canola oil over medium to medium-high heat. 
Add the butter. 
When the butter is melted and the butter/oil mixture is hot
cook 3 pork chops at a time, 2 to 3 minutes on the first side. 
Flip and cook until the chops are golden brown on the other side
about 1 to 2 minutes (make sure no pink juices remain).
Remove to a plate and repeat with the remaining pork chops.
*sloppy joe casserole
Preheat oven to 400 degrees F.
Using a large 12-13 inch oven safe skillet:
brown the ground beef with the onions and the bell pepper over medium high heat
until the meat is fully cooked and crumbly, about 10 minutes. 
Add all of the remaining ingredients except the tater tots and stir well to combine.
Arrange the tater tots in a single layer on top of the sloppy joe mixture in the pan. 
Cook uncovered in preheated oven 
until the tater tots are cooked through and golden brown, 25-30 minutes.
Serve hot and enjoy!
*chicken enchilada verde soup
Heat oil in a large pot or dutch oven over medium high heat. 
Add onions and cook 3-4 minutes until softened. 
Stir in garlic and cook one minute more.
Add broth, salsa verde, beans, chicken, and tortilla chips into the pot.
Bring to a boil and then reduce heat to medium-low. Let simmer for 15 minutes.
Stir in cilantro, lime juice and salt.
Serve and enjoy!
*meatballs
Combine beef, veal, and pork in a large bowl. 
Add garlic, eggs, cheese, parsley, salt and pepper.
Blend bread crumbs into meat mixture.
Slowly add the water 1/2 cup at a time. 
Shape into meatballs.
Heat olive oil in a large skillet.
Fry meatballs in batches. When the meatball is very brown and slightly crisp
remove from the heat and drain on a paper towel. 
*artichoke dip
Pre-heat the oven to 350 degrees.
In a large bowl add all the ingredients except the mozzarella and Parmesan cheese
blend together until well mixed.
Pour into an oven safe pie plate or skillet.
Top with mozzarella cheese and bake for 20-25 minutes.
Top with Parmesan cheese and serve.
*mashed potatoes
Peel and quarter the potatoes
Bring a pot of salted water to a boil.
Add potatoes and cook until tender but still firm, about 15 minutes; drain.
In a small saucepan heat butter and milk over low heat until butter is melted.
Using a potato masher or electric beater,
slowly blend milk mixture into potatoes until smooth and creamy. 
Season with salt and pepper to taste.
*truffle fries
slice potatoes into strips
Place the slices in a fryer or large pot of canola oil at 350°.
cook for 5 to 6 minutes or until golden brown and cooked.
toss in a large bowl with Parmesan cheese, truffle oil, parsley, and salt and pepper
serve hot
*pumpkin pie
Mix sugar, cinnamon, salt, ginger and cloves in small bowl. 
Beat eggs in large bowl. 
Stir in pumpkin and sugar-spice mixture. Gradually stir in evaporated milk.
Pour into pie shell.
Bake in preheated 425° F oven for 15 minutes. 
Reduce temperature to 350° F; 
bake for 40 to 50 minutes or until knife inserted near center comes out clean.
Cool for 2 hours. 
Serve immediately or refrigerate.
*cranberry sauce
juice orange and strip two slices of orange peel 
Combine all ingredients in a medium saucepan.
Bring to a boil over medium-high heat, then reduce to a simmer.
Cook, stirring occasionally, until berries start to pop. 
Press berries against side of pan with a wooden spoon and continue to cook.
Stir occasionally until berries achieve a jam-like consistency, about 10 minutes total. 
Remove from heat and allow to cool about 30 minutes. 
Stir in water in 1-tablespoon increments to adjust to desired consistency. 
Serve or store in fridge. 
*banana split
slice strawberries
slice banana lengthwise
Place banana in a dessert dish; place scoops of ice cream between banana. 
Top with remaining ingredients. 
Serve immediately.
*deviled eggs
Cook eggs for 1 minute. 
Remove from heat and leave covered for 14 minutes. 
Rinse under cold water continuously for 1 minute. 
Crack egg shells and carefully peel under cool running water. 
Gently dry with paper towels. 
Slice the eggs in half lengthwise, removing yolks to a medium bowl.
Place the whites on a serving platter.
Mash the yolks into a fine crumble using a fork. 
Add mayonnaise, vinegar, mustard, salt, and pepper, and mix well.
Evenly disperse heaping teaspoons of the yolk mixture into the egg whites. 
Sprinkle with paprika and serve.
*garlic roasted potatoes
Preheat the oven to 400 degrees.
Cut the potatoes in half and place in a bowl 
add olive oil, salt, pepper, and garlic; 
toss until the potatoes are well coated.
Transfer the potatoes to a sheet pan and spread out into 1 layer.
Roast in the oven for 45 minutes to 1 hour or until browned and crisp.
Flip twice with a spatula.
Remove the potatoes from the oven, toss with parsley, season to taste, and serve hot.
*baked kale chips 
Preheat an oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C). 
Line a non insulated cookie sheet with parchment paper.
With a knife or kitchen shears carefully remove the leaves from the thick stems 
tear into bite size pieces. 
Wash and thoroughly dry kale with a salad spinner. 
Drizzle kale with olive oil and sprinkle with seasoning salt.
Bake until the edges brown but are not burnt, 10 to 15 minutes.
*hummus
In a blender or food processor combine garbanzo beans, garlic, cumin, salt and olive oil. 
Blend on low speed, gradually adding reserved bean liquid, 
until desired consistency is achieved.
*cheese sticks
Remove string cheese sticks from plastic wrappings and cut the strings in half crosswise.
Line a baking sheet with parchment paper. 
Place eggs in a bowl and bread crumbs into a large shallow bowl.
Dip cheese stick halves into egg and roll in bread crumbs to completely coat the sticks; 
place breaded cheese sticks onto the prepared baking sheet. 
Allow cheese sticks to stand at room temperature for about 5 minutes to set, 
and repeat dipping in egg and bread crumbs to form a thick coating.
 Freeze breaded cheese sticks for at least 2 hours.
Heat oil in a deep-fryer or large saucepan to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
Deep fry cheese sticks, a few at a time, until the coating is golden brown and 
crisp and the cheese is soft, 5 to 8 minutes.
Let sticks drain on paper towels; cool slightly and serve warm.
*Roasted Chickpea
Preheat oven to 425 degrees F (220 degrees C).
Spread garbanzo beans in a baking dish and pat dry with a paper towel.
Bake in the preheated oven, stirring halfway through, about 22 minutes. 
Toss with olive oil, salt, and pepper in a large bowl. Return to the baking dish.
Continue baking chickpeas, stirring halfway through, 
until golden and dry on the outside, about 22 minutes more.
*gazpacho 
Purée cucumbers, garlic, and ½ cup water in a blender until smooth. 
Add arugula, herbs, vinegar, and a large pinch of salt and purée, 
stopping to scrape down the sides of the blender as needed, until very smooth. 
With the motor running, slowly stream in oil; blend until emulsified.
Taste gazpacho and season with more salt and vinegar as desired.
Transfer gazpacho to an airtight container; 
cover and chill until very cold, 4–12 hours.
Taste gazpacho and adjust with a little more salt and/or vinegar as needed
pour into chilled glasses
*E.L.T
Spread both sides of bread slices all the way to the edges
using the thinnest layer of mayonnaise possible. 
Heat a dry large skillet over medium-low; 
cook bread until golden, about 3 minutes per side. 
Transfer to a plate; let cool. 
Spread remaining mayonnaise over both slices of bread. 
Top a slice with tomatoes; season generously with salt and pepper.
Arrange eggs over tomatoes; season.
Top with lettuce, close sandwich, and cut in half.
*skirt steak
Combine 3 Tbsp. gochujang, 3 Tbsp. oil, and 3 Tbsp. vinegar 
in a large resealable plastic bag. 
Throw in several generous pinches of salt and 
grate in half of onion on the large holes of a box grater.
Add steak and seal bag, pressing out air, then rub steak to coat; 
chill at least 30 minutes and up to 12 hours.
Meanwhile, thinly slice remaining half of onion and 
combine in a large bowl with remaining ½ cup vinegar and a pinch of salt. 
Let sit until onion is softened, at least 30 minutes and up to 2 hours; 
drain.
Prepare a grill for medium-high heat; oil grate. 
Remove steak from bag, letting excess marinade drip off; 
discard marinade. 
Grill, turning once or twice, until lightly charred on the outside 
and medium-rare in the thickest part, 4–6 minutes, depending on the thickness of the meat. 
Transfer to a cutting board and let rest 10 minutes before thinly slicing against the grain.
*cobb salad
In a jar, shake together vinegar, mustard, and oil and season with salt and pepper. 
On a large platter, spread out lettuce, then 
add rows of hard-boiled egg, chicken, bacon, avocado, blue cheese, and cherry tomatoes. 
Season with salt and pepper, drizzle with dressing, and garnish with chives.
*chicken pesto
Prepare pesto sauce according to package direction.
Heat oven to 350 degrees.
Spray rectangular dish (9 by 12 inch) with no-stick spray.
Moisten chicken with water, shake off excess, and coat complete with bread crumbs.
Place chicken in baking dish.
Spread pesto sauce evenly over chicken breasts.
Cover each breast with ½ slice of provolone cheese.
Spread mushrooms over cheese.
Bake in oven for 45- 50 minutes.
Serve with pasta.
*vegetable lasagna
Preheat oven to 350°F.
Spread a thin layer of sauce on the bottom of a 9"x13" casserole.
Cover with a layer of noodles.
Place ricotta in a bowl and add about 1/4 cup of water, stirring until blended.
Spread 1/3 of this mixture over the pasta (you can use a cake spatula).
Spread 1/3 of the remaining pasta sauce over the cheese.
Spread 1/3 of the vegetables over the sauce.
Sprinkle 1/3 of the mozzarella over the veggies.
Repeat twice starting with the noodles and ending with the mozzarella.
Cover and bake until the noodles are tender (35 to 40 minutes).
Remove cover and bake 5 minutes until cheese starts to become golden.
Remove from oven and allow to stand for 5 minutes before cutting into squares.
*pulled pork
Slice one onion and place in crock pot.
Put in the roast and cover with the other onion, sliced. 
Pour over the ginger ale. Cover and cook on LOW for about 12 hours. 
Remove the meat, strain and save the onions, discard all liquid. 
With two forks, shred the meat, discarding any remaining fat, bones or skin. 
Return the shredded meat and the onions to the crock pot, stir in the barbecue sauce. 
Continue to cook for another 4 to 6 hours on LOW.
Serve with hamburger buns or rolls and additional barbecue sauce. 
Any leftovers freeze very well.
*roasted green beans
Preheat oven to 400°F.
Wash, dry well, and trim green beans.
Put green beans on a jelly roll pan.
Drizzle with olive oil.
Sprinkle with salt and pepper to taste 
Use your hands to be sure all the beans are evenly coated and spread them out into 1 layer.
Roast for 20-25 minutes, turning after 15 minutes, 
until beans are fairly brown in spots and somewhat shriveled.
Serve hot or at room temperature.
*Banana Chocolate Chip Muffins
Preheat oven to 350 degrees.
Lightly coat 12 muffin tin liners with cooking spray and place in muffin tin.
In large bowl, mash bananas with fork.
Whisk in egg, milk, granulated sugar, and brown sugar.
In separate bowl, combine flour, baking soda, and salt.
Add flour mixture to banana mixture and combine well.
Fold in chocolate chips and walnuts.
Spoon equal amounts of batter into 12 muffin cups.
Bake 20 minutes or until toothpick inserted in center comes out clean.
Allow to cool slightly in pan, then remove to wire rack.
*chicken soup
Sauté onion, garlic, jalapeño and green pepper with olive oil in a large pot until soft.
Add all the rest of the ingredients to the large pot and bring to a boil.
After about 15 minutes, remove the chicken breasts and shred.
(Two forks work well to pull the chicken apart!).
Return shredded chicken to the pot and simmer an additional 45 minutes.
*salsa
In food processor place jalapenos and onions.
Process for just a few seconds.
Add both cans of tomatoes, salt, sugar, and cumin.
Process all ingredients until well blended but do not puree.
Place in covered container and chill.
A couple of hours of chilling will help blend and enrich the flavor.
Serve with your favorite thin corn tortilla chips.
*greek salad dressing
Mix all ingredients together
add all ingredients except oil to a blender. 
Pulse several times to mix ingredients. 
With blender running on high, slowly pour 
oil into blender until mixture is creamy. Refrigerate.
*butternut squash risotto
Combine rice and oil in a 1 1/2-quart microwave-safe dish, stirring to coat. 
Microwave, uncovered, at HIGH 3 minutes.
Add broth and 1 cup water to rice mixture; microwave, uncovered, at HIGH 9 minutes. 
Stir well; microwave, uncovered, at HIGH 6 minutes. 
Remove from microwave; let stand 5 minutes or until all liquid is absorbed.
While risotto stands, heat squash in microwave at HIGH 2 minutes or until warm. 
Add squash, salt, pepper, and cheese to risotto. Stir well to combine. 
Garnish with additional cheese and thyme sprigs, if desired.
*Asiago Tortellini
Cook pasta according to package directions, omitting salt and fat; drain.
While pasta cooks, combine broth and tomato in a medium saucepan; bring to a boil. 
Remove from heat; stir in basil. Cover and let broth mixture stand until pasta is done. 
Add drained pasta to broth mixture. Ladle soup into shallow bowls; 
sprinkle each serving with cheese. 
Garnish with basil leaves and pepper, if desired.
*posole
Heat a large saucepan over medium-high heat. 
Coat pan with cooking spray. 
Sprinkle pork evenly with chipotle seasoning blend; 
coat evenly with cooking spray. 
Add pork to pan; cook 4 minutes or until browned. 
Stir in hominy, tomatoes, and 1 cup water.
Bring to a boil; cover, reduce heat, 
and simmer 20 minutes or until pork is tender.
Stir in cilantro.
*corn and bacon chowder
Cook bacon in a Dutch oven over medium heat until crisp.
Remove bacon from pan; crumble and set aside.
Add celery mixture and 1 package corn to drippings in pan; 
sauté 5 minutes or until vegetables are tender.
Place remaining 1 package corn and 1 cup milk in a blender, 
and process until smooth.
 Add pureed mixture to vegetables in pan; 
stir in remaining 1 cup milk, salt, black pepper, 
and cheese. Cook over medium heat (do not boil), stirring constantly, 
until cheese melts. Ladle chowder into bowls. 
Top each serving evenly with reserved crumbled bacon.
*Pasta with meat sauce
boil 4 quarts water in large pot
in a large skillet, brown ground beef until cooked thoroughly
season beef to taste with salt, pepper, and garlic
place noodles in the boiling water and cook until al-dente, about 7-8 minutes
drain cooked pasta and place in the pan with ground beef and olive oil
add pasta sauce and simmer until the sauce is warm
serve hot
*Pasta with marinara sauce
boil 4 quarts water in large pot
place noodles in the boiling water and cook until al-dente, about 7-8 minutes
drain cooked pasta and place in the pan with the olive oil
add pasta sauce and simmer until the sauce is warm
flavor to taste with salt, pepper, and garlic
serve hot
*Pasta with butter and garlic
boil 4 quarts water in large pot
place noodles in the boiling water and cook until al-dente, about 7-8 minutes
drain cooked pasta and place in the pan with the olive oil
add butter and stir until pasta is well-coated
flavor to taste with salt, pepper, and garlic
serve hot

